[Music]
welcome to the program there is no safe
place in Gaza this hour Israel's
bombardment has been constant and
unsparing Thursday more than 150
Palestinians were killed by Israeli air
strikes in total more than 1,400
Palestinians have been killed since
Saturday including First Responders and
journalists and that number is rising
entire neighborhoods have been destroyed
at least 338,000 Palestinians have fled
their homes and have been forced to take
shelter elsewhere and at least 1300
Israelis have been killed since Hamas
launched its surprise military offensive
on Southern Israel on Saturday among the
dead are 245 Israeli soldiers and 47
police officers and hundreds of Israeli
civilians these are the areas that have
come under Israeli attack late on
Thursday they include refugee camps
Israeli air strikes have also hit the
hammed bin jasim Hospital dozens of
patients and displaced Palestinians were
inside we have a team of correspondents
covering all angles of this story
they're in Gaza West Jerusalem and
Washington DC but first yna Al begins
our coverage from
Gaza the flow of casualties to gaza's
hospital seemingly never
ends these children are caught up in the
middle of Israel's war on
Gaza they're unlikely to understand why
this is happening and they're clearly
terrified hospitals are running on
emergency generators when the fuel runs
out the lights will go
out the incubators will stop working
kidney dialysis machines will shut down
and x-rays can't be
taken faces are thick with dust from
homes that have collapsed often on top
of them without
warning Israel says it is destroying
locations used by Hamas but Gaza is so
densely populated that it is almost
impossible to separate private homes
from where Fighters may or may not be
hiding and anyway these people have no
choice where decides to
operate we were sleeping peacefully and
then suddenly my house and my neighbor's
house were hit by bombardments I went
outside and I found my children all
injured then I looked around and I saw
dead bodies and body parts and other
people
injured this appears to be Israel's most
powerful bombing campaign against
Palestinians in the 75e history of the
conflict whole neighborhoods have been
flattened for the people trapped here
there's nowhere to go there's nowhere to
escape Israel shut its border crossings
on Saturday and bombed the one to Egypt
yum Al jazer Gaza
Strip let's get the latest from Gaza now
and bring in tck Abu AUM hello there tar
thousands of strikes since Saturday we
know that and there have been dozens in
just the past hour paint a picture of
what it's like inside Gaza right
now
well another night of Israeli
bombardment of the Gaza Strip continues
uh different areas of the Gaza Strip
were bombarded by the Israeli Air Forces
specifically right now in asaa
neighborhood with where is there is an a
residential building was leveled to the
ground without prior warning also in
kanun specifically in Hamed City uh it's
a very uh densely uh populated area with
a different kind of residential uh
Towers a flat that was bombarded by the
Israeli air strikes now the Gaza Strip
at the current moment is is witnessing
uh different kinds of attacks by the
Israeli uh by the Israeli forces from
Land from the sea and even from the uh
aircrafts uh according to the uh
Palestinian Ministry of Health inside
the Gaza Strip the number of the
Palestinian victims is rising also uh uh
the number of children killed by the
Israeli forces reached to 500 kids and
around
276 women also were killed during the
early beginning of the conflict okay
thank you very much for the update TK
Abu aom
there earlier my colleague Tom McCrae
spoke to Jennifer Austin who's the
deputy director for the United Nations
relief and works Agency for Palestinian
refugees in Gaza she explains just how
dire the situation is
there it is exhausting but it's more
exhausting for the staff of the UN who
are working tirelessly to provide
services to the refugees and and I think
I heard earlier in your um earlier
speaker talking about our our schools
our shelters that we've got 270,000 uh
idps are in our shelters and yeah we are
really stretched um our emergency
response plans cater for 150,000 clearly
like after a few days and we're now into
day six we've almost exhausted all our
supplies it's extremely extremely
difficult yeah we know many people and
and organizations are calling for a safe
passage to allow civilians uh to get out
of Gaza but also allow Aid and supplies
in and I know that you you're clearly
one of them who are you talking to about
trying to get a safe passage open well
um that's not part of the of the UN um
plan because that that's that's out sits
outside of the unua but I'm not sure
this is part of the who's plan I guess
but what uh what we're doing is we're
trying to mobilize fuel resources that
we can um get our get available um you
know we need to have fuel fuel into Gaza
is the most critical because fuel is
running the desalination plants so it's
got we can get clean drinking water fuel
is running um the generators for the
hospitals you know without fuel um you
know gazer is in really big big trouble
how you personally and your your teams
there how long will you be able to
operate because obviously you're
suffering like everyone else in Gaza at
this point in time well our commissioner
General has been working tirelessly at
the highest levels you know up to their
Secretary General I'm sure that everyone
is doing all the advocacy needed working
with Egypt trying to get safe Passage
through Egypt Egypt and Rafa seems to be
the only available option at the
moment the US Secretary of State is in
Israel to reassert American support his
visit follows the first shipment of US
military aid that arrived in Israel on
Wednesday blinkin is also set to meet
Palestinian president Mahmud abas in
Jordan on Friday Sarah hyat reports from
West
Jerusalem see another us reassurance to
Israel this time face to face we're here
we're not calling anyway US Secretary of
State Anthony blinkin and Israeli Prime
Minister Benjamin Netanyahu shake hands
firmly a show of solidarity between two
countries whose Alliance and friendship
goes beyond
politics building on his Jewish Heritage
and referencing bipartisan supports for
Israel blinken had this message you may
be strong enough on your own to defend
yourself but as long as America exists
you will never ever have to we will
always be there by your side you
standing together in unity Benjamin
Netanyahu welcomed the US's help Mr
secretary your visit is another tangible
example of America's unequivocal support
for
Israel Hamas has shown itself to be an
enemy of
civilization US citizens and other
foreign Nationals were among those
killed or captured during the attack on
Israel by Hamas fighters on
Saturday intelligence and Military
Support from the US arrived on Wednesday
in the form of the world's largest
aircraft carrier fighter jet and other
military
aid blink's visit and the formation of a
so-called War cabinet under an emergency
Unity government is supported nationally
in
Israel the United Nations and other
nations though are urgently calling on
the country to allow safe passage for
people to leave
Gaza but for now they have no way out as
Israel continues its
bombing AL jazer West
Jerusalem let's bring in hod abdalhamid
who is outside the knesset in West
Jerusalem hello there Hoda there's a
sense of unity within Israel politically
with the knesset approving an emergency
government just how significant was that
and is there the same sense of unity
among everyday
Israelis
well it was more of a formality in the
sense that prime minister Benjamin
Netanyahu had already uh made a war
declaration in iMed in the immediate uh
uh aftermath of the attack last Saturday
but he had to go in front of the ceset
and basically what it does is that he
has activated some closes of the basic
clo closes pertaining to war that
basically gives him the authority to
delegate to this newly formed War
cabinet which is part of the broader
newly
formed emergency Unity uh government so
that is that was what was happening at
the knesset and then you had the Second
Step that also needed to be done is that
you had five new ministers who had to uh
who had to do their o oath to the in
front of the caness they are now part of
the government they are five members of
the opposition National uh Unity uh
party headed by Benny Gans and he is one
of the five Minister who uh who were
there today so all of this is basically
formalizing all of the politics and all
of the political negotiations that
happened over the past few days and I
have been looking online and talking to
some people and some of them said well
they're very happy that finally they can
see two bitter Rivals standing together
and uh showing you know a united front
in the wake of uh the enemy and in the
wake of what the country is going to go
through in the coming days or weeks
actually some people said you know it
took them six days it's a long time five
days to form the government at this
emergency Unity government and then
today is the sixth day some of them told
me no that that should have been done
much much quicker considering the uh the
the the gravity of the situation
this country is in at the moment now um
not all of the politicians are are are
united even though everybody says that
they will they will support this
emergency Unity government but you have
you still have the major opposition
party with the double of seats in the
knesset than what Benny Gans has who
said that it would not join that
government because it is still against
uh the fact that in the ruling Coalition
of uh the Prime Minister there are two
far right uh ministers and the opp y
leid the main opposition figure blames
these two farri uh ministers for also
creating this and provoking the
Palestinians and somehow taking part in
in you know in this tension that is at
the moment in the country and that has
been simmering in the weeks and months
lead to that in the occupied West Bank
so that is happening now now Israelis
are very known to be standing together
to put aside all the blame game uh
during times of Crisis and this is
what's happening now even though polls
indicate that they squarely put the the
the blame on the government and on the
political leadership for for the lack of
security along that border with Gaza but
they will put put that conversation to
the side until the end of the war and
then Benjamin Netanyahu will have to
answer some very tough questions uh his
political survival is at stake his
legacy is at stake because during his
tenure as prime minister the man who
presented himself always as the man the
only option to provide security to
Israel well then during his tenure
Israel faced the worst day in its
history as many people say okay thanks
for breaking it all down for us H abdal
Hamed in West Jerusalem let's head to
return now to Secretary of State Anthony
blink's visit to Israel where Patty
khain is covering developments for us
from Washington DC Patty this was
blink's most direct plea so far for
Israel to show
restraint it was and I think what's
significant is here is where he did it
there were some questions I think as to
whether the message that had been
growing here in the United States
evolving saying that while Hamas does
not follow the rules of uh the laws of
war Israel has to uh we heard that from
the president but the question was would
Secretary of State an Anthony blinkin
say it well he was in Israel now notably
he didn't say it next to the Prime
Minister but he did say it to members of
the press that the US expects that they
will follow the laws of war the laws of
war say you cannot starve an entire
population of food fuel uh and and water
it is a war crime so what is the US
going to do about this obviously uh they
have some leverage they are currently
supplying Israel with lots of ammunition
the first shipment arrived this week
including uh missiles for the Iron Dome
that air defense system that Israel
relies on so very much uh they could use
that as leverage now they're giving no
indication that they plan to do that nor
have they done that in the past at least
not that we know of uh but they are also
trying to push the Israelis for a
humanitarian corter because obviously
again rules uh the laws of war you can't
indiscriminately Target civilians and
while Israel can say that it's not
trying to Target civilians it's pretty
much impossible not to when you're
talking about bombing a population that
cannot leave so he is pushing for a
humanitarian Corridor and in that vein
we've seen him change his travel plans
he was origin only supposed to go to
Israel and Jordan now he has added stops
to speak with the Palestinian president
Palestinian Authority president Mahmud
Abbas then he's going to go to Saudi
Arabia cutter the United Arab Emirates
and his spokesman says the three focus
is there with those conversations is for
them to try and use their influence to
make sure that this war doesn't broaden
to talk about how to get the hostages
out and how to actually enable a
humanitarian Corridor that it seems so
far at least from reports that Israel
and both Egypt are in fact resisting and
Patty is the defense department
correspondent have you spoken to them
and and what are they saying any intel
you can give
us I just spoke on background with a
very senior uh Pentagon official and
they told us that in fact the Secretary
of Defense Lloyd Austin he's going to be
leaving Brussels where he was focused on
the Ukraine war and he's going to be
headed to Israel tomorrow for meetings
with his counterparts and with Benjamin
Netanyahu obviously well Lincoln is
focused on the the diplomacy of it it's
being the state department uh the
Department of Defense is going to be
looking a little bit more closely at
Israel's uh potential plans and
obviously we've seen preparation for a
ground Invasion they're going to be
talking about what sort of Munitions
what sort of equipment Israel is going
to need because if they do take that
step uh from everyone I've ever spoken
to in the military Community if there's
one kind of fighting you do not want
your forces doing it is Street to Street
ground combat in a very densely
populated area especially when there is
a very long series of tunnels involved
uh it is incredibly dangerous for any
armed forces and you need a lot of
equipment if you're going to even try to
do that successfully so we expect that
Austin's conversations are going to be
much more on the M Munitions that we
that they need he's also probably going
to highlight what the US has done to try
and uh basically warn off anyone who
might seek to escalate the situation as
we know the USS Gerald Ford the largest
uh air aircraft carrier in the world
arrived on stations with its assorted
ships we've seen air uh assets uh
improved and moved to the region uh so
he's going to take the military piece of
that now we do know that Americans are
in Israel with expertise on hostage
negotiations and hostage recovery there
have been some speculation of whether
the US would launch Special Forces from
their assets in the Eastern Med but uh
again this very senior Pentagon official
told me that they do not expect to see
any American forces involved in this
conflict okay thanks so much for the
update as always paty Khan in Washington
DC for
us two of hamas's leaders have just
issued a video statement Basim Naim and
gazi hammad condemned Israel's
indiscriminate bombing of
Gaza if we uh describe the situation in
Gaza it is could be said in one word it
is a
genocide uh there is no safe area for
the people in Gaza to seek Refugee or
shelter uh every area and every building
is under possible attack everyone is
targeted and vulnerable to Israel
killing including women children elderly
and even disabled people with and people
with special needs
for the uh this uh days difficult days
in Gaza the brutal Israel aggression
against Gaza Strip continues with all p
prity and intend to com commit as more
crimes and massacres as they
can uh they are targeting residential
neighborhood they are destroying homes
without giving any
warning or chance for the inhabitants to
leave uh not to mention the illegal and
unethical closure of Gaza Crossing and
cutting all vital services including
water electricity fuel the supply of
medicines and food as clearly stated by
the Israeli
leaders
the the Israel leaders are giving clear
instruction to their army to carry out a
genocide uh to more than two million
citizens in Gaza Strip we are facing an
presented crimes in the modern history
they uh have exceeded all books of uh at
atrocious crimes and they have uh torn
up all the human Arian and international
law and uh conventions we clearly
condemn the reports we have received
that certain Western countries are
dispatching Military Support to the
Israeli occupation those countries are
taking part in the Israeli aggression
and killing of our people instead of
seeking a resolution or contributing to
ending the longest ever occupation in
modern history
e for the captives and prisoners held by
the resistance we confirm here and make
it clear we are fully committed to treat
them in accordance with our religious
values and the rules of international
humanitarian law but in the same time we
are really worried that at the that as
the Israel aggression is everywhere in
Gaza they might be the victims to the
Israeli Army bombardment like our people
where all know that Israel military
allows Israeli Army to Target captives
and their captors even if it leads to
kill them which is named the Hannibal
Doctrine ninth we also confirm that the
file of prisoners and capes will not be
open as long as the Israeli aggression
on Gaza continues 10th on the Israeli
allegations of killing civilians and
beheading of babies which were
unethically and unprofessionally adopted
by many Western media Outlets this is
completely shame that these media
Outlets follow such lies and Israeli
propaganda without making simple efforts
to check the the reality of these
allegations we firmly deny these
allegations and as we reject this media
bias we call on the media agencies to
abide by the journalism code of
ethics 11th in connection to this bias
we totally reject the racist racist
speech by US President Joe Biden who
adopted Crystal Clear lies against our
resistance and who blindly followed the
Israeli allegations and propaganda that
were refuted even by many US
media
finally I conclude as saying again that
the Palestinian people have full right
to fight back until ending the Israeli
occupation where will we will continue
to do so until reclaiming our national
goals and rights we call upon the
governments and peoples all over the
world to help us against such brutal and
fous
incubation there's been a shooting near
herod's gate in occupied East
Jerusalem there are reports two
Palestinians have been injured by
Israeli Security Forces after shots were
fired at a police station two officers
were injured security forces have
cordoned off the
area to France now where police have
used te gas to disperse Pro Palestinian
demonstrators in the Capitol Paris
despite bans on such Gatherings Natasha
Butler was
there well there hundreds of
demonstrators here this Pro Palestinian
uh protest in the center of Paris they
actually being kept very tightly in this
area between uh these two buildings in
the street and that is because the
police are not letting them leave this
is a demonstration has actually been
banned by the French authorities because
they are worried about any violence they
see say that any people turning up here
will be arrested but for the time being
what we're seeing is police very much on
the sides of protesters say though that
they're not going to go
anywhere the authorities mix up
everything we're here for justice a ban
is an affront to our freedom of speech
and to
democracy well what's happening now is
police are moving people back because
what they're trying to do is encourage
these protesters to go home because this
protest has been permitted they're
staying here for now many people have
said to uh me when I've been talking to
them is that it's so sad that people are
dying on all sides that civilians should
not be caught up in this and they also
feel that the cause of the Palestinian
people has been ignored for too
long we have compassion for all the
victims on the Israeli side and also on
the Palestinian side but people must
also understand that for nearly 75 years
Palestinians have been colonized so we
are here as elsewhere
in the world to support them and call
for two free
[Applause]
states we can see there's some young
girls there bit frightened by what's
going on the police have just pushed in
protesters I'm going to move you there
slightly they've just pushed them the
right the way down because they're
trying to clear this protest there are a
lot of people though that look quite
nervous quite tense in the situation
certainly changeed from a peaceful
protest one that seems a little bit more
violent Z
Paris that's it for me Emily anguin and
this bulletin but I'll be back in 30
minutes time with more of our special
ongoing coverage of the Gaza War these
are live pictures out of Gaza at the
moment we'll have all of the day's news
including day going into day seven of
the Gaza Israel war you can find more
information on our website aljazeera.com
it's inside story next which will
examine how Western policy towards
Israel and Palestine over decades is
affecting the conflict today do stay
with
[Music]
us